Every service in AWS has built‑in monitoring.
If you're new to this concept, basically,
monitoring is just understanding what is going on in your environment.
Monitoring services in AWS make it easy to view how your applications
and your entire cloud environment is performing and being used. In AWS,
there are the big two monitoring services,
which are CloudWatch and CloudTrail. CloudWatch, just as the name indicates,
is used to watch how your applications and services are running in AWS.
CloudWatch is used to aggregate system logs from all
AWS resources into a single location.
CloudWatch has a user interface that makes it easy
to query logs and set up alarms.
An example alarm would be an alarm that notifies a system
administrator when applications report error logs.
CloudTrail is a service that provides an exhaustive audit
of all API calls within the AWS account.
Just as the name indicates,
CloudTrail has a logging trail of all changes made within an AWS
account. Adding new users, creating new servers, or really just about
any action that you do directly in the AWS console is automatically
logged to CloudTrail within your account. With Cloud9, creation of new
Cloud9 environments or updates to Cloud9 environments will be logged
into CloudTrail.
With CloudTrail, you can monitor usage of Cloud9 within your account.
All actions taken by users in Cloud9 are logged within CloudTrail
automatically so that the system admins can monitor how the service
is being used within their AWS account.
CloudTrail logs include timestamps, users,
source IP addresses, and additional request details,
which make it really easy for admins to view exactly the events that have
occurred within that account over given periods of time.
Within CloudTrail,
you can configure it so that Cloud9‑related logs are placed into an S3
bucket and are consolidated into a single place.
Also, CloudTrail has a concept called event history,
which shows a history of all events in AWS that have
occurred over a specified time period.
The event history will store Cloud9 in all other AWS service
logs by default within a given time period.
We've covered a lot of content in a very short time, and I'm confident that
you now have enough knowledge to get started using Cloud9.
By taking this course, you've learned many concepts in Cloud9,
including how to read,
write, and debug code, how to leverage Cloud9 features, such as debugging,
Immediate windows, environment variables,
run configurations, and many more to help optimize development in the
cloud. You've learned how to enable teams to access and collaborate using
Cloud9 using identity and access management.
And lastly,
you learned key services in AWS that can be used with Cloud9 to optimize
the development of solutions in the native AWS cloud.
I want to personally thank you for joining me on this journey to learn Cloud9.
I really hope you found the content useful and that it
helps you in your future endeavors. I wish you the best of luck and happy coding. Cheers!